# SAT Encodings of the At-Most-k Constraint
## A Case Study on Configuring University Courses

This repository contains code and evaluation data corresponding to:

P. M. Bittner, T. Thüm, I. Schaefer: SAT Encodings of the At-Most-k Constraint - A Case Study on Configuring University Courses, submitted to [SEFM 2019][1]

[Frisch, A.M., Giannaros, P.A.: SAT Encodings of the At-Most-k Constraint. Some
Old, Some New, Some Fast, Some Slow. In: Proc. of the Tenth Int. Workshop of
Constraint Modelling and Reformulation (2010)][2]

[comment]: <> (Please cite as:)

### Code
The code is given in two [Eclipse][3] workspaces: `Runtime` and `Development`.
Additionally, we provide a jar file for testing our BRanch Of study Tool (Brot).
It can open [FeatureIDE][7] feature model files and allows creating configurations for them.
Opening the feature models of some branches may take a few minutes.
Please note that opening them in the FeatureIDE plugins editor in eclipse may freeze the program because
some of the models are too large.

The [branches of study at TU Braunschweig][6] are given in the `Runtime` workspace together with
the feature models they were compiled to.
These are in german like the original specifications, but our DSL also supports english keywords.

The `Development` Workspace contains the implementation of the at-most-k encodings, domain-specific language (DSL),
and compiler to feature models.
The encodings implementation can be found in the project `AtMostSATEncodings`.
Our DSL and compiler are in the project `tubs.cs.studienrichtung`, which is an Eclipse plugin project.
In order to run it, the [eclipse modelling framework][4] and [EMFText][5] are required.
The generated code for our abstract syntax is given in the `src-gen` subdirectory.
However, the concrete syntax has to be generated by running EMFText on our grammar file
`tubs.cs.studienrichtung\model\Studienrichtung.cs`. In Eclipse this can be done via the context menu.
The `GraphicalConfigurator` projects contains a simple configuration tool for feature models.
It can be used to configure the feature models, generated by our DSL compiler.

### Evaluation Data
We provide our data on evaluating the at-most-k encodings and feature models compiled from our DSL files, describing
the [branches of study at TU Braunschweig][6].
For each branch, csv files are given summarising the results for each encoding together with a general overview.

### License

Copyright (c) 2019 Paul Maximilian Bittner, Technische Universität Braunschweig

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

You understand and agree that the authors are under no obligation to provide
either maintenance services, update services, notices of latent defects, or
corrections of defects with regard to the Software. The authors nevertheless
reserve the right to update, modify, or discontinue the Software at any time.

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software. You agree to cite the papers
"SAT Encodings of the At-Most-k Constraint - A Case Study on Cofiguring University Courses"
and "Frisch, A.M., Giannaros, P.A.: SAT Encodings of the At-Most-k Constraint. Some
Old, Some New, Some Fast, Some Slow"
in documents and papers that
report on research using this Software.

[1]: https://sefm2019.inria.fr/
[2]: http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~fbacchus/csc2512/at_most_k.pdf
[3]: https://www.eclipse.org/
[4]: https://www.eclipse.org/modeling/emf/
[5]: https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/emftext
[6]: https://www.tu-braunschweig.de/informatik-msc/struktur/studienrichtungen
[7]: https://featureide.github.io/